# first-regression_project

In today's dynamic real estate market, accurate predictions of rental prices are crucial for both property owners and prospective tenants. Given the complexity and variability of factors influencing rental prices, let's see if we can build a model that can predict rental properties across Canada.
This project aims to build a robust regression model to predict rental prices based on a variety of features, including property characteristics, location, and other miscellaneous factors by leveraging advanced statistical techniques and machine learning algorithms.

The dataset used was from rentfaster.ca, a website for renters to find accommodation and property owners to post their rental property! 

Initially, after some basic EDA, it was apparent which data columns were likely to be not useful for our model. The Rentfaster_id, link, longitude, longitude, address and province columns were dropped, reducing the clutter in our dataset. There's not much use in IDs or link or the rental property for predicting price. The decision to drop the other 4 columns relating to location and only keeping a 'city' column was because it would be redundant causing a multicollinearity problem. One concern for this project was having a high dimensional data problem. The availability_date column had random dates with many only having one data point at that value. By grouping those values by month and whether its during the beginning or end of month, may lead to a more accurate model. There was far too few data points for each day of the month to have any accuracy. In general, there was a lot of cleaning and adjustments needed to be made in order for the model to give accurate results which you'll find in detail in the notebook. 

In this project, 3 different regressions were tested. Linear Regression, LassoCV Regression and RidgeCV Regression. To compare the 3 models, the metrics observed were MAE, MSE, RMSE, R2 Score. The models had very similar metrics, but RidgeCV reigned supreme with the best scores in all 4 metrics evaluated. The RidgeCV model was used to predict the price of a 3 bedroom, 1 bath, 1043 square ft apartment located in Montreal. The predicted value was 2689.86 and the actual price was 2540. Overshot the price a bit, but overall not bad. About 6% off target price.
